# Syncano iOS Library
---

# Building from source

## Build Library
-------------

We are using CocoaPods for external libraries dependencies and their installation. You have to install CocoaPods plugin and use it to install external libraries we depend on. 
 
To install CocoaPods on your Mac type: 

	$ [sudo] gem install cocoapods

To install libraries execute command in the same directory as 'Podfile' file:

	$ pod install

To compile the library you should use `syncano-ios.xcworkspace` (and run `pod install` on `Podfile` in the same directory). To compile Demo project using the library, use `SyncanoDemo.xcworkspace` and a `Podfile` there. To use project with installed libraries always open project with `.xcworkspace` file, not `.xcodeproj`!

## Modification
------------

To add external library dependency just edit 'Podfile' in main directory and type:

	pod 'library name' 

To remove external library just remove line with this library in 'Podfile', save it and execute command:

	$ pod install

 Documentation and further information on cocoapods available: http://cocoapods.org/

## Documentation
-------------

 Appledoc documentation can be generated by building a `Documentation` target in `syncano-ios.xcworkspace`. Docs will be in `Syncano-Docs` directory and will be installed to Xcode documentation, too. In case something is wrong, logs are put into `appledoc.log` file. Before that `appledoc` should be installed, available at https://github.com/tomaz/appledoc/

 For writing documentation, it is recommended to use `VVDocumenter` XCode plugin (https://github.com/onevcat/VVDocumenter-Xcode). It makes writing correctly structured documentation a little easier. Simply place cursor above method/class/anything you wish to describe, and type `///` to generate a documentation template snippet for that item.
 
## Getting started
---

### Import Syncano header

```smalltalk
/// Used for REST connection
#import <Syncano/Syncano.h>
```

### Create main Syncano object 
(This will be used to send requests to your instance of Syncano.):

```smalltalk
Syncano *syncano = [Syncano syncanoForDomain:@“YOUR-SYNCANO-DOMAIN” apiKey:@“YOUR-API-KEY-123456”];
```

### Send data to Syncano 
(Use a project ID and collection ID from your admin GUI, i.e. YourDomain.syncano.com, for the below. You can use the “default” values or create your own.):

```smalltalk
NSString *textToSend = @“Some sample text”;
UIImage *imageToSend = [UIImage imageNamed:@“sampleImage.png”];

SyncanoParameters_DataObjects_New *params = [[SyncanoParameters_DataObjects_New alloc] initWithProjectId:@“PROJECT_ID” collectionId:@“COLLECTION_ID” state:@"pending"];
params.text = textToSend;
params.image = imageToSend;

///For an asynchronous connection, enter the below and work with the returned response
[syncano dataNew:params callback:^(SyncanoResponse_DataObjects_New *response) {
	if (response.isResponseOK) {
	}
}
```

### Download data from Syncano:

```smalltalk
///Describe what you want to download by using parameters
SyncanoParameters_DataObjects_Get *params = [[SyncanoParameters_DataObjects_Get alloc] initWithProjectId:@“PROJECT_ID” collectionId:@“COLLECTION_ID”];
params.dataId = @“123456”; // set if you want to download one particular object. Leave empty if you want to download all objects from that collection

///For an asynchronous connection, enter the below and work with the returned response
	[syncano dataGet:params callback:^(SyncanoResponse_DataObjects_Get *response) {
	if (response.isResponseOK) {
		SyncanoData *data = response.data;
	}
}
```

We also offer synchronous connections if you’d like to manage threading yourself. You can use the exact same methods to connect with Syncano using TCP socket - just use SyncanoSyncServer class object instead of Syncano class.

